# Early-Predictions-of-Movie-Success-using-NLP
In 2018, the global box office revenue hit 41.7 billion U.S dollars. In U.S, the number amounted to about 11.9 billion U.S. dollars. United States alone released more than 800 movies in 2018. However, only a small number of movies have high return on investment. Most of them have very limit life time and are dethroned as new starlets are not long in coming. For movie investors, they want to know whether their investment will ultimately lead to returns or profits when the movies are officially released. For film studios, they want to optimize their arrangement of movies by predicting the box office. Knowing which movies are most likely to success and which are most likely to fail could benefits investors and film studio a lot. It could also help them to release movie in a most appropriate way. 
We will collect the early period review of movies from social media platform and use Natural language processing (NLP) tools to conduct the movie review analysis. Sentiment analysis will be used to find out people’s views about films. The definition of a movie success is relative, some movies are called successful based on its worldwide gross income, and some movies may not be outstanding in business part but can be called successful for good review and popularity, while we believe the business values is always the key point for marketers and investors, so we will use return on investment (ROI) as our target variable. A movie that ROI>1 is regarded as a business successful movie, and vice versa.
As the most popular review hubs, Rotten Tomatoes and IMDb will be our mainly resources for our project dataset. The dataset will conclude following information: score, review number and review content (user and critic), user rating, average rating, director, stars, genres, box office, budget, release date. We will first build a baseline model based on numeric features, then we will apply text analysis to improve the model’s performance and find out what is the main features that affect the success of a movie.
